Update SmartThings documentation (#37780)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/smartthings.markdown

ha_integration_type: integration
---

[SmartThings](https://www.samsung.com/smartthings/) is a home automation platform for connecting with Samsung or third-party devices.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Prerequisites

- You need a Samsung account and account credentials
- To connect devices, you need the SmartThings app installed on your phone
```
Not sure if this is 100% correct. But if the account is needed, we could mention it in the prereqs section. I was trying to install their app and it wanted my account details.

> [SmartThings](https://www.samsung.com/smartthings/) is a home automation platform, that can be used to connect with Samsung or third party devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[SmartThings](https://www.samsung.com/smartthings/) is a home automation platform for connecting with Samsung or third-party devices.
```

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## Platforms

> SmartThings represents devices as a set of [capabilities](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/capabilities-reference) and the SmartThings integration maps those to entities in Home Assistant. A single device may be represented by one or more entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SmartThings represents devices as a set of [capabilities](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/capabilities-reference). The SmartThings integration maps those capabilities to entities in Home Assistant. A single device may be represented by one or more entities.
```

ha_integration_type: integration
---

[SmartThings](https://www.samsung.com/smartthings/) is a home automation platform for connecting with Samsung or third-party devices.

## Prerequisites

> - You need a Samsung account and account credentials
> - To connect devices, you need the SmartThings app installed on your phone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need a Samsung account and account credentials.
- To connect devices, you need the SmartThings app installed on your phone.
```

- [Scene](#scene)
- [Switch](#switch)

### Binary sensor

> A binary sensor entity will be created for each of the following capabilities if the device has those.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Home Assistant, a binary sensor entity will be created for each of the following SmartThings capabilities:
```

> | Capability                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SmartThings capability                                                                                                                    |
```
In each case, I would add SmartThings, to make it clear that it is related to their terminology, and not ours. (I didn't see that at first)

|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | [`accelerationSensor`](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/capabilities-reference#accelerationSensor) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `accelerationSensor`|
```
1. Do you think it is necessary to send the user to the dev docs? Or is it enough if the capabilities are listed? I would remove all those links to the dev docs.
2. Is this how their capability is spelled in their front end? Is this the UI string I see in their app?

For a SmartThings Air Conditioner to be represented by the climate platform, it must have all of the following required capabilities:

> | Capability                                                                                                                                             | Climate Features                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SmartThings capability                                                                                                                                             | Related climate features in Home Assistant                                                                                                                                                 |
```

The SmartThings Cover platform lets you control devices that have open/close related capabilities. For a device to be represented by the cover platform, it must have one of the capabilities from "set a" below.

| Capability                                                                                                                 | Cover Features                    |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| [`doorControl`](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/capabilities-reference#doorControl) (set a)    | `open` and `close`                |

> | [`garageDoorControl`](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/deprecated#garageDoorControl) (seb a)    | `open` and `close`                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`garageDoorControl`](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/deprecated#garageDoorControl) (set a)    | `open` and `close`                |
```

The SmartThings Fan platform lets you control devices that have fan-related capabilities. For a SmartThings device to be represented by the fan platform, it must have one or more of the capabilities below in addition to the [`switch`](https://smartthings.developer.samsung.com/develop/api-ref/capabilities.html#Switch) capability.

> | Capability                                                                                                | Fan Features                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SmartThings capability                                                                                                | Related fan features in Home Assistant                                |
```

|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|
| [`fanSpeed`](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/capabilities-reference#fanSpeed) | `speed` (`off`, `low`, `medium`, and `high`) |

### Light

The SmartThings Light platform lets you control devices that have light-related capabilities. For a SmartThings device to be represented by the light platform, it must have one or more of the capabilities below in addition to the [`switch`](https://smartthings.developer.samsung.com/develop/api-ref/capabilities.html#Switch) capability.

> | Capability                                                                                                                | Light Features                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SmartThings capability                                                                                                                | Related light features in Home Assistant                |
```

The SmartThings Sensor platform lets your view devices that have sensor-related capabilities. A Sensor entity is created for each attribute (below) supported by the device.

> | Capability                                                                                                                                                    | Attributes                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SmartThings capability                                                                                                                                                    | Related attributes in Home Assistant                                                     |
```

| [`washerOperatingState`](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/proposed#washerOperatingState)                                           | Machine state<br/>Job state<br/>Completion time                          |

### Scene

The SmartThings Scene platform lets you activate scenes defined in SmartThings with a scene entity representing each SmartThings scenes within the location.

### Switch

The SmartThings Switch platform lets you control devices that have the [`switch`](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/capabilities-reference#switch) capability that are not already represented by a more specific platform.

## Troubleshooting

### Debugging

If debug logging is enabled, the integration shows all the received events in the logs.

It will capture events for that device for 5 seconds, after which it will return a JSON file with the state of the device and the events.
This can be helpful for diagnosing state updates, for example by selecting the button and then turning on the device physically.

> - Follow these steps to [enable debug logs and diagnostics](/docs/configuration/troubleshooting/#debug-logs-and-diagnostics)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow these steps to [enable debug logs and diagnostics](/docs/configuration/troubleshooting/#debug-logs-and-diagnostics).
```

### Switch

The SmartThings Switch platform lets you control devices that have the [`switch`](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/capabilities-reference#switch) capability that are not already represented by a more specific platform.

> ## Debugging

Reviewer: the debug section should probably move into the troubleshooting section.

If debug logging is enabled, the integration shows all the received events in the logs.

> By downloading the device diagnostics (by going to a device page, selecting the 3 dots and downloading diagnostics) it will capture events for that device for 5 seconds, after which it will return a JSON file with the state of the device and the events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will capture events for that device for 5 seconds, after which it will return a JSON file with the state of the device and the events.
```

> This can be helpful for diagnosing state updates, for example by selecting the button and then turning on the device physically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be helpful for diagnosing state updates, for example by selecting the button and then turning on the device physically.

- Follow these steps to [enable debug logs and diagnostics](/docs/configuration/troubleshooting/#debug-logs-and-diagnostics)
```

## Troubleshooting

> #### What Client ID and Secret do I have to fill in?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What Client ID and Secret do I have to fill in?
```

### Switch

The SmartThings Switch platform lets you control devices that have the [`switch`](https://developer.smartthings.com/docs/devices/capabilities/capabilities-reference#switch) capability that are not already represented by a more specific platform.

## Debugging

> By enabling debug logging, the integration will show all the received events in the logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If debug logging is enabled, the integration shows all the received events in the logs.
```

By downloading the device diagnostics (by going to a device page, selecting the 3 dots and downloading diagnostics) it will capture events for that device for 5 seconds, after which it will return a JSON file with the state of the device and the events.
This can be helpful for diagnosing state updates, for example by selecting the button and then turning on the device physically.

## Troubleshooting

> ### Setting up the integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> #### What Client ID and Secret do I have to fill in?

Reviewer: should this be part of the configuration section? The question probably comes up there.

> #### What Client ID and Secret do I have to fill in?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Symptom: During set up, I'm prompted to enter Client ID and Secret. What are they?
```

> Please make sure you have the `cloud` integration enabled, it will handle that automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Cause

If you are prompted to enter Client ID and Secret when setting up the integration, it means your {% term "`configuration.yaml`" %}  file has been edited. 

### Resolution

You need to re-enable the default configuration in your {% term "`configuration.yaml`" %} file.

1. [Open the configuration file](/docs/configuration/#editing-configurationyaml).
2. Check if the file contains an entry called `default_config:`.
   - If it doesn't, add it to the first line of the configuration file.
3. To apply the configuration change, go to  **Settings** and in the top-right corner, select the three dots {% icon "mdi:dots-vertical" %} menu. Select **Restart Home Assistant** and  **Restart Home Assistant**.
```

> ## Removal instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Removing the integration
```
We use the -ing form (gerund) for task titles (procedural content)

> This integration can be removed from Home Assistant using the following instructions. Afterward, you can open the SmartThings app and delete the Home Assistant application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> {% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include integrations/remove_device_service.md %}
4. Open the SmartThings app and delete the Home Assistant application from SmartThings.
```
